lab/code_gen/README.rst, before:

Code Generation
===============

This chapter develops software that generates batch-reduce matrix-matrix multiplications (BRGEMMs).
As outlined in the file `Brgemm.h <data/Brgemm.h>`_ in the ``data`` directory, we use the C++ namespace ``mini_jit::Brgemm`` for all development.
Use the ``generate`` function as a common entry point for all BRGEMM code generation:

.. code-block:: C++

  /**
   * @brief Generate a kernel for batch-reduce matrix multiplication.
   * @param m number of rows in A and C.
   * @param n number of columns in B and C.
   * @param k number of columns in A and rows in B.
   * @param br_size batch-reduce size.
   * @param trans_a 0 if A is stored in column-major order, 1 if A is stored in row-major order.
   * @param trans_b 0 if B is stored in column-major order, 1 if B is stored in row-major order.
   * @param trans_c 0 if C is stored in column-major order, 1 if C is stored in row-major order.
   * @param dtype data type of the matrices.
   * @return error_t::success on success, another error_t value otherwise.
   **/
  error_t generate( uint32_t m,
                    uint32_t n,
                    uint32_t k,
                    uint32_t br_size,
                    uint32_t trans_a,
                    uint32_t trans_b,
                    uint32_t trans_c,
                    dtype_t  dtype );

All generated kernels have the same function signature and can be obtained by calling the ``get_kernel`` function:

.. code-block:: C++

  /*
   * Kernel type.
   * The kernel is a function that takes the following parameters:
   * - a: Pointer to first of a batch of A matrices.
   * - b: Pointer to first of a batch of B matrices.
   * - c: Pointer to C matrix.
   * - ld_a: Leading dimension of A.
   * - ld_b: Leading dimension of B.
   * - ld_c: Leading dimension of C.
   * - br_stride_a: Stride (in elements, not bytes) between A matrices.
   * - br_stride_b: Stride (in elements, not bytes) between B matrices.
   */
  using kernel_t = void (*)( void    const * a,
                             void    const * b,
                             void          * c,
                             int64_t         ld_a,
                             int64_t         ld_b,
                             int64_t         ld_c,
                             int64_t         br_stride_a,
                             int64_t         br_stride_b );

  /**
   * @brief Get the generated kernel: C += sum_i(A_i * B_i).
   * @return pointer to the generated kernel.
   **/
  kernel_t get_kernel() const;

Microkernel
-----------
This section develops software that can generate a microkernel and a loop over the matrix dimension K.

.. admonition:: Tasks

   1. Start implementing the ``generate`` function. Support only the single setting of an FP32 Neon microkernel that computes C+=AB for column-major matrices and M=16, N=6, and K=1.
      Return an appropriate error code if the parameters of the function differ from this setting.
   
   2. Add support for the ``k`` parameter by generating a K loop around the microkernel.

   3. Test the kernel generation. Report performance in GFLOPS.

GEMM
----
This section extends the code generation software by supporting many choices for the dimensions M, N and K.
Specifically, support should include at least all M-N-K combinations for the following ranges:

* 1≤M≤1024
* 1≤N≤1024
* 1≤K≤2048

.. admonition:: Tasks

   1. Extend the implementation of the ``generate`` function to support all M-N-K combinations for C+=AB as specified above.

   2. Verify your kernel generation by comparing to a reference implementation for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64 and K∈[1,16,32,64,128], and by setting lda=M, ldb=K, ldc=M.

   3. Verify the kernel generation in cases where lda>M, ldb>K or ldc>M.

   4. Benchmark the performance of your generated kernels and report the measured performance for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64, K∈[1,16,32,64,128], lda=M, ldb=K and ldc=M. Use a CSV format for output. Follow the structure of the example file `data/perf.csv <data/perf.csv>`_. Report the arithmetic mean performance of all settings in GFLOPS.

Batch-Reduce GEMM
-----------------

This section extends the code generation with support for a batch-reduce dimension. We assume that 1≤br_size≤1024.

.. admonition:: Tasks

  1. Extend the implementation of the ``generate`` function to support batch-reduce GEMMs: C+=∑AᵢBᵢ.

  2. Verify your generated kernels against a reference implementation.

  3. Benchmark the performance of your generated kernels and report the measured performance for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64, K∈[1,16,32,64,128], br_size=16, br_stride_a=M*K, br_stride_b=K*N, lda=M, ldb=K, and ldc=M. Report the arithmetic mean performance of all settings in GFLOPS.

Commit message:

Added clarification on column-major inputs.

lab/code_gen/README.rst, after:

Code Generation
===============

This chapter develops software that generates batch-reduce matrix-matrix multiplications (BRGEMMs).
As outlined in the file `Brgemm.h <data/Brgemm.h>`_ in the ``data`` directory, we use the C++ namespace ``mini_jit::Brgemm`` for all development.
Use the ``generate`` function as a common entry point for all BRGEMM code generation:

.. code-block:: C++

  /**
   * @brief Generate a kernel for batch-reduce matrix multiplication.
   * @param m number of rows in A and C.
   * @param n number of columns in B and C.
   * @param k number of columns in A and rows in B.
   * @param br_size batch-reduce size.
   * @param trans_a 0 if A is stored in column-major order, 1 if A is stored in row-major order.
   * @param trans_b 0 if B is stored in column-major order, 1 if B is stored in row-major order.
   * @param trans_c 0 if C is stored in column-major order, 1 if C is stored in row-major order.
   * @param dtype data type of the matrices.
   * @return error_t::success on success, another error_t value otherwise.
   **/
  error_t generate( uint32_t m,
                    uint32_t n,
                    uint32_t k,
                    uint32_t br_size,
                    uint32_t trans_a,
                    uint32_t trans_b,
                    uint32_t trans_c,
                    dtype_t  dtype );

All generated kernels have the same function signature and can be obtained by calling the ``get_kernel`` function:

.. code-block:: C++

  /*
   * Kernel type.
   * The kernel is a function that takes the following parameters:
   * - a: Pointer to first of a batch of A matrices.
   * - b: Pointer to first of a batch of B matrices.
   * - c: Pointer to C matrix.
   * - ld_a: Leading dimension of A.
   * - ld_b: Leading dimension of B.
   * - ld_c: Leading dimension of C.
   * - br_stride_a: Stride (in elements, not bytes) between A matrices.
   * - br_stride_b: Stride (in elements, not bytes) between B matrices.
   */
  using kernel_t = void (*)( void    const * a,
                             void    const * b,
                             void          * c,
                             int64_t         ld_a,
                             int64_t         ld_b,
                             int64_t         ld_c,
                             int64_t         br_stride_a,
                             int64_t         br_stride_b );

  /**
   * @brief Get the generated kernel: C += sum_i(A_i * B_i).
   * @return pointer to the generated kernel.
   **/
  kernel_t get_kernel() const;

Microkernel
-----------
This section develops software that can generate a microkernel and a loop over the matrix dimension K.

.. admonition:: Tasks

   1. Start implementing the ``generate`` function. Support only the single setting of an FP32 Neon microkernel that computes C+=AB for column-major matrices and M=16, N=6, and K=1.
      Return an appropriate error code if the parameters of the function differ from this setting.
   
   2. Add support for the ``k`` parameter by generating a K loop around the microkernel.

   3. Test the kernel generation. Report performance in GFLOPS.

GEMM
----
This section extends the code generation software by supporting many choices for the dimensions M, N and K.
Specifically, support should include at least all M-N-K combinations for the following ranges:

* 1≤M≤1024
* 1≤N≤1024
* 1≤K≤2048

.. admonition:: Tasks

   1. Extend the implementation of the ``generate`` function to support all M-N-K combinations for C+=AB as specified above. Assume that all matrices are in column-major format.

   2. Verify your kernel generation by comparing to a reference implementation for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64 and K∈[1,16,32,64,128], and by setting lda=M, ldb=K, ldc=M.

   3. Verify the kernel generation in cases where lda>M, ldb>K or ldc>M.

   4. Benchmark the performance of your generated kernels and report the measured performance for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64, K∈[1,16,32,64,128], lda=M, ldb=K and ldc=M. Use a CSV format for output. Follow the structure of the example file `data/perf.csv <data/perf.csv>`_. Report the arithmetic mean performance of all settings in GFLOPS.

Batch-Reduce GEMM
-----------------

This section extends the code generation with support for a batch-reduce dimension. We assume that 1≤br_size≤1024.

.. admonition:: Tasks

  1. Extend the implementation of the ``generate`` function to support batch-reduce GEMMs: C+=∑AᵢBᵢ. Assume that all matrices are in column-major format.

  2. Verify your generated kernels against a reference implementation.

  3. Benchmark the performance of your generated kernels and report the measured performance for 1≤M≤64, 1≤N≤64, K∈[1,16,32,64,128], br_size=16, br_stride_a=M*K, br_stride_b=K*N, lda=M, ldb=K, and ldc=M. Report the arithmetic mean performance of all settings in GFLOPS.
